in recent years the reputation
surrounding the fedora hat has taken a
dive due to it becoming associated with
Internet neckbeards white knights and
nerdy try-hards Paul check this out and
because of this stigma that's been
attached to it in recent years people
are generally more cautious about
wearing fedoras this stigma relating to
the tips fedora meme and there's a
certain image that's been floating
around that essentially serves as the
cornerstone for the tips fedora meme
that exists online and this image is
known commonly as fedora guy this image
of a smug looking young man donning a
neckbeard in fedora hat has long been a
meme used to Lampoon try-hards on
internet forums it essentially serves as
satire that pokes fun of these guys on
forums that talk all of this big game
acting like they're just the ultimate
gentlemen when it comes to ladies but in
actuality they're probably some guy in
his early thirties chillin in his mom's
basement while this image of fedora guy
isn't the only example of a tips fedora
meme as there are multiple variants it
is by far the most widely and recognized
example of it so I got curious and
wanted to know how this guy's picture
ended up becoming this big meme online
the backstory behind it spread who is
the actual guy in the picture and how
did his likeness becoming a meme affect
his real life before starting I'd like
to think the ridge for sponsoring
today's video they make these sleek
metallic wallets this one I have is the
aluminum version on the ridge website
you'll find that their wallets come in
various different types of metals and
materials from titanium to carbon fiber
I've used both the aluminum and the
titanium they're both excellent choices
and rich has more than just wallets they
also have phone cases book bags power
banks charging cables and even pocket
knives so check those out as well I've
got a 10% off link in the description
box that includes free worldwide
shipping that's wwe.com slash surf and
use code surf to save that 10% off
anyways let's get onto the video so
before I begin talking about the fedora
guy himself I need to explain how tips
fedora Beach
in the first place because I think it's
essential to understand that in order to
give context to the fedora guy picture
well as with the origin of many memes
that we find online the genesis of tips
fedora can be traced back to none other
than the folks over on 4chan the phrase
tips fedora was first used in a thread
on 4chan svey board in mid-2012 and it
quickly began to spread and become
popular on several of the other boards
and it was generally stuff like this I
want to borrow your pin tips fedora
m'lady I'd be honored to help you with
your homework the meme evolved for some
time on 4chan and eventually it spilled
over to tumblr and I think this
particular example I'm about to show you
is a perfect showcase of what the whole
tips fedora phenomena is all about the
back story of this post is supposedly
this tumblr user buys his crush a pack
of donuts in an effort to win her over
and this is the result I tried this on a
female before she took the bottom middle
donut that says girl and handed the box
back to me leaving me with five donuts
that read will you be my friend tips
fedora and shame friend-zoned again by
another succubus the phrase tips fedora
then found its way onto reddit and this
is where we begin to see the meme
transform from its text-based origins to
more of an image macro template in mid
to late 2013 you began to see more and
more image based incarnation of tips
fedora memes which displayed oftentimes
undesirable men wearing fedoras
accompanied with melodramatic hot takes
on women or these we live in a society
ask testimonies I'm sorry that I'm
always the one you need to talk to you
but never good enough today I'm sorry
that I thought sex can wait till after
marriage then you went out and got
pregnant I'm sorry that I always held
your hair back when you
threw up and didn't get mad at you for
puking in my car but when we went out
you went home with another guy I'm sorry
for not being sorry anymore
I'm sorry that you can't accept me for
who I am as an atheist why should I
tolerate all the many different
religious views that people subscribe to
I have decided that I will tolerate it
no longer and any religious person I
ever meet I will instantly regard as of
lesser intelligence and delusional and
treat them as such and this is just a
small selection of tips fedora memes you
can find online
there's thousands upon thousands of them
so in late 2013 when we had the
proliferation of these tips fedora memes
appearing on reddit this is when the
actual fedora guy himself comes into the
fold on October 31st the first image of
the fedora guy was shared to Reddit and
was associated with the tips fedora meme
for the first time when it was posted to
this hour circle jerk thread by redditor
I have two broken arms AMA the title of
the post was the more you hit the upload
button
the more you forea you receive and the
thread essentially just features the
photo of the fedora guy this entire hour
circle jerk post is actually a meta joke
poking fun at a rather infamous thread
that was submitted over on our atheism
by redditor a Louis and in this thread
he details this cringe inducing
embellishment of his status as an
atheist just to be clear I'm not a
professional quote maker I'm just an
atheist teenager who greatly values his
intelligence and scientific fact over
any silly fiction book written 3,500
years ago this being said I am open to
any and all criticism in this moment I
am euphoric not because of any phony
God's blessing but because I am
enlightened by my intelligence yeesh
this infamous post by a Louis would
become an inside joke amongst redditors
I did my video up to you at this moment
and the legendary fedora guys picture
was made a meme within one of the many
threads that mock the are atheism user
after its initial use in the our
circle-jerk thread the fedora guy began
to spread rapidly across the internet
and essentially became the poster child
for the entire tips fedora joke and
would be closely associated with
internet neckbeards in general there
have been numerous renditions and
remixes of it throughout the years and
it's actually still a somewhat relevant
meme today but I think at this point you
get the picture you understand the
spread of how the actual fedora guy
picture became a meme I want to start
talking about the man behind the fedora
guy the actual human being who is he and
how did this thing get online in the
first place well in early 2014
redditors were asking the same questions
a thread was created in February of 2014
entitled who is the famous fedora
tipping neckbeard
what are his origins and within this
thread someone came up with the idea to
reverse image search the fedora guy
photo and it turns out that the image
was associated with an IMDB page created
for an actor named Jerry Messing the
page says he was from Los Angeles
California and was born on April 3rd of
1986 which would make him 27 years old
at that time in 2014 this IMDB page
lists Jerry Messing's acting credits
from as early as 1997 and stops around
2003 and oddly enough this list includes
some pretty remarkable acting credits
notable credits included playing Pugsley
Addams in the 1998 Addams family reunion
movie and playing a character named
Gordon crisp in the TV series freaks and
geeks which actually has a pretty good
review online here he is in the Addams
Family movie
[Music]
how's our patient doing well okay but do
you remember our little lesson from last
time don't you if the patient refuses to
stop screaming offer him some anesthetic
good boy Pugsley I'm sure you'll be at
the top of your class when you reach
medical school and here he isn't
and gigs I don't like sci-fi I love it
here mom drivers should mine hey me my
mom should drive because she puts on my
makeup on in the parking lot before I go
in great so from what the redditors were
able to dig up it looked like the fedora
guy was a childhood actor whose name was
Jerry Messing and to add even more
evidence that this picture of the fedora
guy was really Jerry Jerry Messing's
Facebook page was promptly dug up and lo
and behold the infamous fedora guy
picture was on Jerry Messing's Facebook
page with a post date of May 1st 2011 so
without a shadow of a doubt this is the
real guy so the internet knew the real
identity of fedora guy but there were
still some unanswered questions
questions like was Jerry Messing aware
that his likeness had become a meme and
had he acknowledged it and also what was
the actual story behind this photo being
taken well on May 8th of 2014 Jerry
Messing would take to Facebook and for
the first time acknowledged the meme so
I've been made aware of a meme that I
seem to become a part of due to my
picture something that seems to have to
do with the recent influx of friend
requests I've been unsure how to or even
if I should respond to this possibility
but I now find it too humorous to not
say something first I want to thank
those who have been respectful as to how
I might feel towards this and second I
would like to say how funny it is for a
photo I had taken for the fun of it
would generate this much well I'm not
sure what to call it infamy as to why a
for fun shot appears to have been done
professionally that's simple when I got
my last set of headshots done there was
still some film to use up and the result
was this on a final note to those who
have come because of this meme in
remaining respectful I ask you to also
respect the photographer who took it he
does excellent work and the only reason
this picture is up is because it is not
an official one
so yeah Jerry Messing was certainly
aware that he had become a living meme
however after this acknowledgment Jerry
Messing would remain rather silent on
the whole situation even as the friend
requests to his Facebook page would
continue to increase as more and more
people learned that he was the actual
fedora guy and I can certainly
understand why somebody would want to
distance themselves from a meme based
off of their likeness
especially in this circumstance when
more often than not the Fedora guy image
was used to mock and make fun of people
online and not only that who really
wants to be known as the poster child
for internet neckbeard culture I know I
wouldn't want to be
brah as the summer of 2014 rolls around
the Fedora guy meme begins to reach its
peak popularity and it had been shared
across pretty much every fathomable
corner of the internet and people still
had questions for jerry he did
acknowledge that the photo was taken at
some sort of headshot photo shoot but
people wanted to know why he was doing
that particular pose in the photo shoot
but in the summer months jerry was
elusive and didn't answer many questions
about the fedora guy meme on his
facebook page but for whatever reason in
august he finally decided to break his
silence and further explain the
backstory behind the photo and it turns
out at the end of his headshot photo
session he wanted to pay homage to one
of his favorite movies after some
deliberation i've decided i will finally
start answering some questions if you
have something you really want to ask me
it is respectful and I feel I can
properly answer it at this time please
post it as a comment and I will respond
to it however just to knock one off the
asking roster I will say why I took the
now infamous photo I've loved the Blues
Brothers movie since I saw it I also
fell in love with the style that Dan
Aykroyd and John Belushi portrayed in
the film certainly part of the charm of
the film and while I knew it was a style
I could never do justice to I wanted to
try at least once when I'm down more
wait I still plan to try and pull off a
hopefully semi decent homage to the late
Belushi on some Halloween night complete
with karaoke renditions of soul man I
can already envision the cringing but
there you have it so it turns out the
fedora tip engaged upon by Jerry Messing
in the infamous fedora guy photo was
just him paying homage to the Blues
Brothers and that's really the story as
with many of the cases I talk about on
this channel this is another example of
someone uploading a piece of content
that's rather unremarkable it gets
hijacked by the internet and gets
transformed into a meme
fortunately for Jerry's case him being
transformed into this living meme
actually had a pretty negligible effect
on his life and he didn't suffer much of
a negative consequence from this at all
and going through his Facebook post it
seems like he almost wears the fedora
guy meme as a
badge of honor and as for what he's
doing recently it looks like he's trying
to start up a podcast so if you want to
get updates on that make sure you check
out his Facebook page and if that thing
ever comes out I guess tune in and leave
a comment but that my friends is the
story of how Jerry Messing aka the
fedora guy got looped into the tips
fedora movement and became a meme let me
know what you thought about this video
in the comment section and I'll see you
guys in the next one major shout outs to
my patrons I appreciate you guys wavy
web surf out peace
[Music]